README.md, before:

# Indonesian Docs Translation for Kubernetes

This README is owned by `sig-docs-id`, a special interest group in Kubernetes community responsible for translating the entire [Kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/id) into Bahasa Indonesia. This process is called [localization](https://blog.mozilla.org/l10n/2011/12/14/i18n-vs-l10n-whats-the-diff/). Through this README, we hope to onboard contributors who know Bahasa Indonesia to join our mission.

## Why are we doing this?

Translation is sometimes a tedious work, so we need some motivation to do it.
* You will read the Kubernetes doc, and rewrite it with your own expression in Bahasa Indonesia. This forces you to understand the content of particular Kubernetes doc, and validate your understanding by explaining it in your own words.
* Reach wider audience in Indonesia who want to learn about Kubernetes and passionate about it, but cannot because of language barrier.
* Let the world know about our beautiful language Bahasa Indonesia.

## Getting Started

Getting started for this `docs-id` project can be found in [this slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1g8NLYpfrvBb8DbR_UT74M-p2VQn58wZ2_ztqGEg--HM/edit?usp=sharing). To summarize, the steps are:
1. Join [#kubernetes-docs-id](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/CJ1LUCUHM) channel in Kubernetes slack. You can discuss and ask any questions here related to your contribution.
2. Kubernetes org requires you to sign CLA in order to contribute. Follow [this guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/CLA.md) if you haven't done so.
3. Open the existing [Kubernetes ID docs](https://kubernetes.io/id/docs/), find any page that is still written in English. For current milestone, we focus on `concept`, `task`, and `tutorial` sections.
4. Browse issues in [kubernetes/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Alanguage%2Fid) repo filtered with `language/id` label. If you haven't found anyone else working on your translation page, create [a new issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/new?labels%5B%5D=kind%2Ffeature&template=feature-request.md) describing your work. Don't forget to label your issue with `language/id`. Finally, put comment in your issue that you are going to work on it.
5. [Fork](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/fork) the `kubernetes/website` repo to your own Github account.
6. Make your changes in your own fork. Look for the `content/id` directory. For the page you want to translate, copy from original `content/en` and translate. Make sure the directory structure reflects the English one.
7. Push to your fork, then raise Pull-Request from your fork to `kubernetes/website`. Don't forget to put `language/id` label. If there's no issue, you will get netlify link to preview your live change.
8. Someone from `sig-docs-id` will review. If not, go to the Slack channel and remind people.
9. Once sorted, your contribution will be merged and reflected live in [Kubernetes ID docs](https://kubernetes.io/id)!

Some optional readings to help you, but not required:
* Indonesian [readme](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/master/README-id.md) of `kubernetes/website`.
* [Kubernetes Localization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization)

Some popular Indonesian doc of other technologies that we can refer to:
* [VueJS](https://docs.vuejs.id)
* [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/id/)
* [ReactJS](https://github.com/reactjs/id.reactjs.org)

## Glossary

Writing technical doc in Bahasa Indonesian in itself is a very challenging task, because of our habit in using English terms for technical conversation. This is a learning process for all of us. 

To help solving this, we maintain several glossary that can be used for translation in [this docs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uK1TGfKyT5ZmWWQx4c4KYm7YmOmuOHyQW-bh8rGTMP4/edit?usp=sharing), which will standardize the Indonesian doc ultimately. Keep in mind that glossary list will keep on going as we learn together as Indonesian community. After learning how community writes Indonesian docs, we will attempt to provide standardized writing style guide for Bahasa Indonesia.

Commit message:

Include M1 issue tracker to guide

README.md, after:

# Indonesian Docs Translation for Kubernetes

This README is owned by `sig-docs-id`, a special interest group in Kubernetes community responsible for translating the entire [Kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/id) into Bahasa Indonesia. This process is called [localization](https://blog.mozilla.org/l10n/2011/12/14/i18n-vs-l10n-whats-the-diff/). Through this README, we hope to onboard contributors who know Bahasa Indonesia to join our mission.

## Why are we doing this?

Translation is sometimes a tedious work, so we need some motivation to do it.
* You will read the Kubernetes doc, and rewrite it with your own expression in Bahasa Indonesia. This forces you to understand the content of particular Kubernetes doc, and validate your understanding by explaining it in your own words.
* Reach wider audience in Indonesia who want to learn about Kubernetes and passionate about it, but cannot because of language barrier.
* Let the world know about our beautiful language Bahasa Indonesia.

## Getting Started

Getting started for this `docs-id` project can be found in [this slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1g8NLYpfrvBb8DbR_UT74M-p2VQn58wZ2_ztqGEg--HM/edit?usp=sharing). To summarize, the steps are:
1. Join [#kubernetes-docs-id](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/CJ1LUCUHM) channel in Kubernetes slack. You can discuss and ask any questions here related to your contribution.
2. Kubernetes org requires you to sign CLA in order to contribute. Follow [this guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/CLA.md) if you haven't done so.
3. Look at Indonesian translation [issue tracker](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/13929) to pick what page to translate.
4. [Fork](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/fork) the `kubernetes/website` repo to your own Github account.
5. Make your changes in your own fork. Look for the `content/id` directory. For the page you want to translate, copy from original `content/en` and translate. Make sure the directory structure reflects the English one.
6. Push to your fork, then raise Pull-Request from your fork to `kubernetes/website`. Don't forget to put `language/id` label. If there's no issue, you will get netlify link to preview your live change.
7. Someone from `sig-docs-id` will review. If not, go to the Slack channel and remind people.
8. Once sorted, your contribution will be merged and reflected live in [Kubernetes ID docs](https://kubernetes.io/id)!

Some optional readings to help you, but not required:
* Indonesian [readme](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/master/README-id.md) of `kubernetes/website`.
* [Kubernetes Localization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization)

Some popular Indonesian doc of other technologies that we can refer to:
* [VueJS](https://docs.vuejs.id)
* [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/id/)
* [ReactJS](https://github.com/reactjs/id.reactjs.org)

## Glossary

Writing technical doc in Bahasa Indonesian in itself is a very challenging task, because of our habit in using English terms for technical conversation. This is a learning process for all of us. 

To help solving this, we maintain several glossary that can be used for translation in [this docs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uK1TGfKyT5ZmWWQx4c4KYm7YmOmuOHyQW-bh8rGTMP4/edit?usp=sharing), which will standardize the Indonesian doc ultimately. Keep in mind that glossary list will keep on going as we learn together as Indonesian community. Discuss in [#kubernetes-docs-id](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/CJ1LUCUHM) Slack channel for suggesting new terms. After learning how community writes Indonesian docs, we will attempt to provide standardized writing style guide for Bahasa Indonesia.
